110

# Lustre Gems! (Work in progress....)

## Lustre programming (Lustre API)

### What is a transaction
this does not support mulitple transactions yet, only 1 update RPC each time betwee MDTs
### What is portal
### What is transfer type
### What is sink buffer frag (fragments)
### What is source

https://review.whamcloud.com/#/c/36827/ - imp.

* Prepare bulk descriptor for specified incoming request \a req that
 * can fit \a nfrags * pages. \a type is bulk type. \a portal is where
 * the bulk to be sent. Used on server-side after request was already
 * received.
 * Returns pointer to newly allocatrd initialized bulk descriptor or NULL on
 * error.
 
    /* We must already have a reply buffer (only ptlrpc_error() may be
         * called without one). The reply generated by sptlrpc layer (e.g.
         * error notify, etc.) might have NULL rq->reqmsg; Otherwise we must
         * have a request buffer which is either the actual (swabbed) incoming
         * request, or a saved copy if this is a req saved in
         * target_queue_final_reply().
	 
	 lustre/target/out_handler.c
	 
	 **
 * Object updates between Targets. Because all the updates has been
 * dis-assemblied into object updates at sender side, so OUT will
 * call OSD API directly to execute these updates.
 *
 * In DNE phase I all of the updates in the request need to be executed
 * in one transaction, and the transaction has to be synchronously.
 *
 * Please refer to lustre/include/lustre/lustre_idl.h for req/reply
 * format.
 */
 
 
 

## Linux Kernel programming (Kernel API used under Lustre)

- ### KIOV vs Kvec (https://review.whamcloud.com/#/c/36826/)


LU-13004 ptlrpc: Allow BULK_BUF_KIOV to accept a kvec

Bulk descriptor of type PTLRPC_BULK_BUF_KIOV are comprised
of a list of page+offset+len.
If the calling code actually has a virtual-address+len, it
cannot current use BULK_BUF_KIOV and must use BULK_BUF_KVEC.

However it is quite easy to convert virtual-address+len
to a list of page+offset+len.

So we can add a ->add_iov_frag interface for KIOV descriptors, and
then we will be able to use KIOV descriptors for everything.  The
caller must ensure to allocate a large enough descriptor, taking
into account the size of each exptected kvec.

No, that wouldn't be a good idea.
It is only reasonable to "pin" a page if we "own" it already.
When we have a virtual address plus length, we might not own the page.
memory provided by kmalloc is a good example.  mapping the address
to a struct page, and then incrementing the reference on that page probably won't do what you want.  It certainly won't stop the page from being reused by the slab allocater.


const struct ptlrpc_bulk_frag_ops ptlrpc_bulk_kiov_nopin_ops = {
	.add_kiov_frag	= ptlrpc_prep_bulk_page_nopin,
	.release_frags	= ptlrpc_release_bulk_noop,
	.add_iov_frag	= ptlrpc_prep_bulk_frag_pages,
};
EXPORT_SYMBOL(ptlrpc_bulk_kiov_nopin_ops);

=>
LU-13004 target: use KIOV for out_handle

Convert out_handle() use use a BULK_BUF_KIOV rather than
a BULK_BUF_KVEC.

This is a step towards removed KVEC support and standardizing
on KIOV.

